Hello and welcome back to the advanced course on our program and the press tutorial we had quite an
involved discussion about the Apply function and how it works how it breaks things down how it iterate
over components of your list.
We had three examples we got even closer to the final deliverable one which we're after.
And what we're going to do today is introduce a very handy little trick that you can use with the Apply
function to work with lists.
So we're talking about combining El apply with the square brackets.
Operator All right there's going to be interesting.
And it's going to be different because the square brackets operator isn't actually like a function like
Romains or other function that would be using transpose and so on.
It looks like just you know square brackets but in reality you can combine it with helpline that's what
we're going to see just now.
All right.
So here's our weather list.
Let's have a look.
So there's a where the Lispeth got our four cities and let's say hypothetically that we wanted to extract
this element this element of this matrix how would we do that we would go whether it's weather then
it would say Dulles side of Chicago and then it would say because that would give us this matrix by
itself.
And then here I would say first row and the first column if I run that that gives me that element as
we know this is identical to saying I'm even going to put it above because that's how we learned it
.
This is identical to saying let's get rid of that double square brackets to 1 because that is the first
component of the list that will give us the same matrix.
And then we say 1 1 so far on that.
Exactly the same result.
Right there you go 1 1 1.
That's it.
And Chicago 1 1.
Awesome.
So what do we want to do now.
Well let's say hypothetically we wanted to extract the average high temperature in Fahrenheit for January
for not just Chicago but for all of the four cities what would we do.
We would of course would have to iterate over all of them right.
We would have to do something like Chicago that would do same thing for New York and then we do same
thing for the rest of them.
Right.
Which is identical to this song.
But why would we try it every time you think of iterations think of and apply type of function.
So that means here because we work in Fallis we could use the Apply function and you could say apply
weather and then instead of passing a function like Romains or something we could just pass on the square
brackets.
OPERATOR And how do we do that.
Well we just say quotation marks square brackets.
And then we do 1 1.
So this is the question here.
This is the interesting part which square brackets are referring to here.
In fact let's just forget about this example for now.
Let's just work with this.
So is this square brackets referring to this or is this square brackets referring to this.
This is another part that we need to get our head around.
So what does apply do l apply.
By default by some when we say I'll apply whether what we're doing by default is we're saying all right
we're going to iterate over the components of weather.
So this part is iteration this part weather and one one brother one in double quotation will double
square brackets whether to double square brackets.
This part is implied over here already.
That's just what applied does.
So you can do anything about that.
These square brackets are going to be there because that's the iteration process.
This square bracket is this one over here.
So we only need space for one because our smart.
Understand that when you specify one square brackets actually mean two.
That's how it works.
And then what.
These two ones do.
They are the optional parameters that go inside this function which is a square bracket.
So that is how you break this down.
How conception is that was going on apply whether iterates over the separate components.
And then here what you're doing is you're passing on the square brackets which are as just adding just
as it were.
Means a call means it would just apply Romains a call means to the whole matrix here to just applying
the square brackets that you're passing on with the optional primers.
So if I run this now we haven't run it yet.
We're on this now.
We will get a list containing the average high temperature in Fahrenheit for January for everyone of
these cities.
Beautiful.
And just a quick couple more what else we can do is we can say so there's a weather list.
What we want.
Let's say we want the first row for every single city so we want to find out.
We don't want all this information.
All we need is average high temperatures in Fahrenheit for all of the months.
How would we do that.
But say apply whether that would say square bracket again and then it would say 1 and then comma nothing
.
So you'll even see that we're probably going to get a warning for this.
No.
No we didn't.
Sometimes like exclamation mark pops up over there but seems ok time.
So there we go.
You can see a missing argument to function call.
Even sometimes our studio thinks that you forgot something here but we didn't because we know that in
square brackets we want that one coming out thing.
So that what you have here is now we've got those extracts have been created.
This is just the first row of every one of our matrices and they have been put into their own list.
And finally how would you like maybe pause this video and let's say you want to create a list which
contains these metrics but only for March.
For every one of the cities suggest for March How would you do that.
March is here.
How would you create a list like that.
Right so post this video give it a go.
And I'm going to show you how I would do it.
I would say apply whether Then I'll say square bracket and then I'll say nothing because I want all
of the rose Colma three because March is the third month around that as you can see has been presented
to us as column as Rose or as vectors.
But this is indeed 46 city 2.0 and two you can see here that it is 46.
Thirty two point seventy two so we got this column that we wanted and we got it for every single one
of us cities.
So that is how you combine the square brackets operator with the Apply function.
Definitely give this a bit of practice just so that you can be very very comfortable with this.
This is an incredibly powerful tool which you might find to come in handy in your work one day and I
hope you enjoyed this story.
I look forward to see the next one.
And until then happy coding